For this last lesson of this chapter on
scope rules, we're
going to talk about nested scope or what's
also called lexical scope.
So let's start our program.
We'll call it nested.py since nested is
the term that Python programmers use.
Lexical scope is more of a functional
programming term.
The idea behind nested scope is that when
define
a function, and then you define a function
inside a
function, then the function inside the
function, the nested function,
will have access to the variables of the
outer function.
So let me show you know what I'm talking
about.
Here we're gonna define the hypotenuse for
a right triangle.
And to do that, we need to compute the
square of each side.
So we're gonna put the definition
of square inside the definition of
hypotenuse.
Then we'll finish off the definition of
hypotenuse after we've defined square.
So, we square s1 plus the square of s2.
So, the hypotenuse is the square root of
the
square of side one plus the square of side
two.
Now to make all this work, we also have to
import the math library to get at the
square root function.
The square root function is right here.
So, notice that square is going to have to
have
access to s1 and s2 right here and right
here.
And that's the idea behind nested scope.
With that, let's write a little program to
test our function.
So, we're gonna get the length of each, of
the two sides.
Then
we'll compute the hypotenuse, calling the
function.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Then we'll display it.
So let's Save and Run the program.
So
we'll say the length of side one is three.
The length of side two is four.
And that give us the hypotenuse of five.
So again, looking at the program, we're
looking at the functions
especially function definition, we see
that using nested scoping rules or
lexical scoping rules, a function defined
inside another function can
have access to the variables defined in
the function at a higher level.
So square has access to S1 and S2 because
of the nestical scoping rules.
So with that, we're finished with this
brief chapter on scoping and
we're ready to move on to the single
exercise for the chapter.